Tab hook docs (#1888)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-aria/tabs/docs/useTab.mdx

OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-aria/tabs';
import {HeaderInfo, FunctionAPI, TypeContext, InterfaceType} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-aria/tabs/package.json';
import Anatomy from './anatomy.svg';

```jsx import
import {useTab, useTabList, useTabPanel} from '@react-aria/tabs';
import {useTabListState} from '@react-stately/tabs';
```

---
category: Navigation
keywords: [tabs, aria]
---

# useTabList

<p>{docs.exports.useTab.description}</p>

<HeaderInfo
  packageData={packageData}
  componentNames={['useTabList', 'useTab', 'useTabPanel']}
  sourceData={[
    {type: 'W3C', url: 'https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#tabpanel'}
  ]} />

## API

<FunctionAPI function={docs.exports.useTabList} links={docs.links} />

<FunctionAPI function={docs.exports.useTab} links={docs.links} />

<FunctionAPI function={docs.exports.useTabPanel} links={docs.links} />

## Features

> Tabs provide a list of tabs that a user can select from to change the panels contents. `useTab`, `useTabList`, and `useTabPanel` help implement these in an accessible way.

Reviewer: I find `Tabs provide a list of tabs that a user can select from to change the panels contents.` hard to read, it's correct, but doesn't roll off the tongue. I've tried a few changes in my head and haven't found one that worked better.

* Support for mouse, touch, and keyboard interactions on tabs
* Support for LTR and RTL keyboard navigation
* Support for disabled tabs
* Support for accessibly linking tabs and the associated tab panel

## Anatomy

<Anatomy />

> Tabs consist of a tablist with one or more visually separated tabs. Each tab has associated content and only the selected tab's content is shown.

Reviewer: I noticed that in `Features` we say `panels content`, in the daigram it's `Tab View` and here it is `tabs content`. All similar and all terms we use, but wondering if we should be more precise.

Author: I've cleaned up the anatomy to say panel
this particular sentence though i think makes the most sense the way it is written, each tab has content that is shown within the panel, and only the selected tab's content is shown

  );
}

<Tabs aria-label="History of Ancient Rome" disabledKeys={['Emp']}>
  <Item key="FoR" title="Founding of Rome">Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.</Item>
  <Item key="MaR" title="Monarchy and Republic">Senatus Populusque Romanus.</Item>
  <Item key="Emp" title="Empire">Alea jacta est.</Item>
</Tabs>
```

## With focusable content

When the tab panel doesn't contain focusable content, the entire panel is given a `tabIndex=0` so that the content can be navigated to. When the tab panel contains focusable content, such as a textfield, then the tab index is omitted because the content itself can receive focus.

Using the same example `Tabs` component from above. Try navigating from the tabs to the content for each panel using the keyboard.

```tsx example
import {TextField} from '@react-spectrum/textfield';
import {Content} from '@react-spectrum/view';

<Tabs aria-label="Notes app">
  <Item key="item1" title="Jane Doe">
    <Content><TextField label="Leave a note for Jane" /></Content>
  </Item>
  <Item key="item2" title="John Doe">Senatus Populusque Romanus.</Item>
  <Item key="item3" title="Joe Bloggs">Alea jacta est.</Item>
</Tabs>
```

## Internationalization

> useTab handles some aspects of internationalization automatically. For example, keyboard navigation left right is automatically swapped for RTL languages. You are responsible for localizing all tab labels and content.

Reviewer: What other i18n things dose useTab do?
I also saw `direction` from useLocale() in useTabList not useTab.

Author: maybe I should start the sentence with useTabList, but was going for the overall class of hooks in which I am missing an s on the end of that
mostly it's just confusing to refer to the three hooks together

Author: opting to change it to `These hooks handle some aspects`

<!-- Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-aria/tabs';
import {HeaderInfo, FunctionAPI, TypeContext, InterfaceType} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-aria/tabs/package.json';
import Anatomy from './anatomy.svg';

```jsx import
import {useTab, useTabList, useTabPanel} from '@react-aria/tabs';
import {useTabListState} from '@react-stately/tabs';
```

---
category: Navigation
keywords: [tabs, aria]
---

> # useTabList

Author: yeah, i have no idea which to use, because useTab is a hook for a specific tab, useTabs doesn't exist, tablist and tabpanel are the others
so what should the overall name be?

> <p>{docs.exports.useTab.description}</p>

Author: whoops, i deleted it

`useTabList` returns props to spread onto any element containing the tabs:

<TypeContext.Provider value={docs.links}>
  <InterfaceType properties={docs.links[docs.exports.useTabList.return.id].properties} />
</TypeContext.Provider>

`useTab` returns props to be spread onto each individual tab:

<TypeContext.Provider value={docs.links}>
  <InterfaceType properties={docs.links[docs.exports.useTab.return.id].properties} />
</TypeContext.Provider>

`useTabPanel` returns props to spread onto the container for the tab content:

<TypeContext.Provider value={docs.links}>
  <InterfaceType properties={docs.links[docs.exports.useTabPanel.return.id].properties} />
</TypeContext.Provider>

## Example

This example displays a basic list of tabs. The currently selected Tab get a tabindex of 0 while the rest are set to -1 ensuring that the Tab list is only a single tab stop. The selected tab gets a different style so it's obvious which one is currently selected. Our hooks handle the aria properties that associate the tabs with their tab panel for screen readers. In the tab panel itself, we only render the currently selected item.

> ```tsx example

Reviewer 2: If the tabs component in the last example is the same, you can change this to:
```suggestion
```tsx example export=true
```
and get rid of the collapsed dupe code

see useColorField.mdx for an example (wish I could link to the proper place but you have to look at the raw file)
https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/blob/1e2b7f280a04ead83e21b27fa580eb189e5f4186/packages/%40react-aria/color/docs/useColorField.mdx

Author: I'd forgotten about this one, thank you!

      <div {...tabListProps} ref={tablistRef}>
        <div style={{display: 'flex', borderBottom: '1px solid grey'}}>
          {[...state.collection].map((item) => (
            <Tab key={item.key} item={item} state={state} />
          ))}
        </div>
      </div>
      <div {...tabPanelProps} ref={tabpanelRef} style={{padding: '10px'}}>
        {state.selectedItem && state.selectedItem.props.children}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
function Tab({item, state}) {
  let {key, rendered} = item;
  let ref = React.useRef();
  let {tabProps} = useTab({key}, state, ref);
  let isSelected = state.selectedKey === key;
  let selectedStyle = {
    borderBottom: '3px solid orange'
  };
  let tabStyle = {
    padding: '10px',
    ...(isSelected ? selectedStyle : {})
  };
  return (
    <div {...tabProps} ref={ref} style={tabStyle}>
      {item.rendered}
    </div>
  );
}

<Tabs aria-label="History of Ancient Rome">
  <Item key="FoR" title="Founding of Rome">Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.</Item>
  <Item key="MaR" title="Monarchy and Republic">Senatus Populusque Romanus.</Item>
  <Item key="Emp" title="Empire">Alea jacta est.</Item>
</Tabs>
```

## With focusable content

> When a Tab Panel has focusable content, there is a difference in behavior. When nothing inside is focusable, the entire `role="tabpanel"` is given a `tabIndex=0`, this is so that the content can be navigated to. When there is something focusable inside, such as a textfield, then this is omitted because the textfield can receive the focus.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for flow
```suggestion
When the tab panel doesn't contain focusable content, the entire panel is given a `tabIndex=0` so that the content can be navigated to. When the tab panel contains focusable content, such as a textfield, then the tab index is omitted because the content itself can receive focus.
```

> Using the same example `Tabs` component from above. Try navigating from the tabs to the content for each panel using the keyboard.

Reviewer 2: Is this section supposed to be separate from the paragraph above? If so you need another newline inbetween

    <div>
      <div {...tabListProps} ref={tablistRef}>
        <div style={{display: 'flex', borderBottom: '1px solid grey'}}>
          {[...state.collection].map((item) => (
            <Tab key={item.key} item={item} state={state} />
          ))}
        </div>
      </div>
      <div {...tabPanelProps} ref={tabpanelRef} style={{padding: '10px'}}>
        {state.selectedItem && state.selectedItem.props.children}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
function Tab({item, state}) {
  let {key, rendered} = item;
  let ref = React.useRef();
  let {tabProps} = useTab({key}, state, ref);
  let isSelected = state.selectedKey === key;
  let selectedStyle = {
    borderBottom: '3px solid orange'
  };
  let tabStyle = {
    padding: '10px',
    ...(isSelected ? selectedStyle : {})
  };
  return (
    <div {...tabProps} ref={ref} style={tabStyle}>
      {item.rendered}
    </div>
  );
///- end collapse -///
}

<Tabs aria-label="Notes app">
  <Item key="item1" title="Jane Doe">
    <Content><TextField label="Leave a note for Jane" /></Content>
  </Item>
  <Item key="item2" title="John Doe">Senatus Populusque Romanus.</Item>
  <Item key="item3" title="Joe Bloggs">Alea jacta est.</Item>
</Tabs>

> ```

Reviewer 2: Needs a internationalization section?
